Add release highlights for 7.6 (#51070)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/release-notes/highlights-7.6.0.asciidoc

[[release-highlights-7.6.0]]
== 7.6.0 release highlights
++++
<titleabbrev>7.6.0</titleabbrev>
++++

//NOTE: The notable-highlights tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]

> ==== Histogram field type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== New histogram field type
```

> A new {ref}/histogram.html[histogram field type] has been added.  The new `histogram` field accepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new {ref}/histogram.html[histogram field type] has been added. The new `histogram` field accepts
```

pre-aggregated histograms which can later be used directly in the
{ref}/search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-aggregation.html[percentiles] and
{ref}/search-aggregations-metrics-percentile-rank-aggregation.html[percentile_ranks] aggregations.

> This allows users to pre-aggregate histogram data locally to the client and only send the final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows users to pre-aggregate histogram data locally and only send the final
```

> datastructure, saving storage and network transfer, but still retaining the ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data structure, saving storage and network bandwidth while retaining the ability to
```

aggregate it like any other data.

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]

> ==== Optimize sorting on long field types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Optimized sorting on long field types
```

> Sorting on a `long` field now internally rewrites into a Lucene `DistanceFeatureQuery`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sorting on a {ref}/number.html[`long`] field now internally rewrites into a Lucene `DistanceFeatureQuery`.
```

> This allows skipping non-competitive hits which leads to increased query performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lets {es} skip non-competitive hits, which often improves query speed.
```

> In benchmarks this has sped up sorts on `long` fields by 10x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In benchmarking tests, this sped up sorts on `long` fields by 10x.
```
